Hypertext Transfer Protocol(HTTP): the network protocol used to deliver virtually all resources on the World Wide Web.
  e.g. HTML files, image files, query results, 
HyperText: text with hyperlinks in it 
Transfer protocol: rules for getting something from one place to another
  In this case, the rules are for transferring web pages to your browser.
Usually, HTTP takes place through TCP/IP sockets

An HTTP client (e.g. a browser) sends requests to an HTTP server (Web server)
	the server then sends responses back to the client
The standard (and default) port for HTTP servers to listen on is 80, though they can use any port.

Resource: some chunk of information that can be identified by a URL
	Almost all HTTP resources are currently either files or server-side script output.

HTTP proxy: a program that acts as an intermediary between a client and a server. 
	It receives requests from clients, and forwards those requests to the intended servers. 
	The responses pass back through it in the same way. 
	Thus, a proxy has functions of both a client and a server.

Proxies are commonly used in firewalls, for LAN-wide caches, or in other situations. 

When a client uses a proxy, it typically sends all requests to that proxy, instead of to the servers in the URLs. 
Requests to a proxy differ from normal requests in one way:
	in the first line, they use the complete URL of the resource being requested, instead of just the path.
	e.g.: GET http://www.somehost.com/path/file.html HTTP/1.0
That way, the proxy knows which server to forward the request to (though the proxy itself may use another proxy).

#--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#URL Structure
		http://video.google.co.uk:80/videoplay?docid=-7246927612831078230&hl=en#00h02m30s
	protocol					        http
	host or hostname		      video.google.co.uk.
	subdomain 					      video
	domain name					      google.co.uk
	top-level domain (TLD)	  uk
		uk is also referred as country-code top-level domain or ccTLD
		for google.com, the TLD would be com
	second-level domain (SLD)	co.uk.
	port						          80
	resource path				      /videoplay
	parameter or query			  ?docid & hl
	value of parameter 			  -7246927612831078230 & en
		parameters start with a question mark (?) and separated with an ampersand (&).
	fragment or named anchor	#00h02m30s

#static url: a document that can be returned by a webserver without the webserver doing any computation
#dynamic url is a document that requires the webserver to do some computation before returning the web document

#--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#Structure of HTTP Transactions

HTTP uses client-server model: 
	an HTTP client opens a connection and sends a request message to an HTTP server
	the server then returns a response message, usually containing the resource that was requested
	after delivering the response, the server closes the connection 
HTTP is a stateless protocol: not maintaining any connection information (state) between transactions

The format of the request and response messages consist of:
	an initial line,
	zero or more header lines,
	a blank line (i.e. a CRLF, CR, or LF by itself)
	an optional message body (e.g. a file, query data, or query output)
The format of an HTTP message is:
	<initial line is different for request vs. response>
	Header1: value1
	Header2: value2

	<optional message body goes here, it can be many lines long
    e.g. file contents, query data, or even binary data $&*%@!^$@>

#Initial Request Line
The initial line is different for the request than for the response. 
A request line has three parts, separated by spaces: 
	a method name, the local path of the requested resource, and the version of HTTP being used. 
A typical request line is: GET /path/to/file/index.html HTTP/1.0

GET is an HTTP method
Method names are always uppercase
path is the part of the URL after the host name, a.k.a. the request URI (a URI is like a URL, but more general).
HTTP version always takes the form "HTTP/x.x", uppercase

#HTTP Methods
GET: retrieves information from the specified source
POST: sends new information to the specified source
PUT: updates existing information of the specified source
DELETE: removes existing information from the specified source
HEAD: asks the server to return the response headers only, and not the actual resource (i.e. no message body)

A POST request is different from a GET request in the following ways:
  There's a block of data sent with the request, in the message body. 
    There are usually extra headers to describe this message body, like Content-Type and Content-Length
  The request URI is not a resource to retrieve; it's usually a program to handle the data you're sending.
  The HTTP response is normally program output, not a static file.
  The most common use of POST, by far, is to submit HTML form data

Here's a typical form submission, using POST:
POST /path/script.cgi HTTP/1.0
From: frog@jmarshall.com
User-Agent: HTTPTool/1.0
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 32

home=Cosby&favorite+flavor=flies

You can use a POST request to send whatever data you want, not just form submissions. 
Just make sure the sender and the receiving program agree on the format.
The GET method can also be used to submit forms. 
The form data is URL-encoded and appended to the request URI.

#Initial Response Line (Status Line)
The initial response line also has three parts separated by spaces: 
	HTTP version, a response status code that gives the result of the request, an English reason phrase describing the status code
Typical status lines are: 'HTTP/1.0 200 OK' or 'HTTP/1.0 404 Not Found'

The HTTP version is in the same format as in the request line, "HTTP/x.x".
The reason phrase may vary.
The status code is a three-digit integer, and the first digit identifies the general category of response:
	1xx indicates an informational message only
	2xx indicates success of some kind
	3xx redirects the client to another URL
	4xx indicates an error on the client's part
	5xx indicates an error on the server's part
The most common status codes are:
200 OK							  The request succeeded, and the resulting resource (e.g. file or script output) is returned in the message body.
404 Not Found					The requested resource doesn't exist.
301 Moved Permanently 
302 Moved Temporarily 
303 See Other 
  (HTTP 1.1 only)
	The resource has moved to another URL (given by the Location: response header), 
	and should be automatically retrieved (redirected) by the client.
500 Server Error			An unexpected server error
	The most common cause is a server-side script that has bad syntax, fails, or otherwise can't run correctly.

#Header Lines
Header lines provide information about the request or response, or about the object sent in the message body.
The header lines are in the usual text header format: 
	one line per header, of the form "Header-Name: value", ending with CRLF. 
It's the same format used for email and news postings, defined in RFC 822, section 3. Details about RFC 822 header lines:
	they should end in CRLF, but you should handle LF correctly
	The header name is not case-sensitive (though the value may be)
	Any number of spaces or tabs may be between the ":" and the value
	Header lines beginning with space or tab are actually part of the previous header line, folded into multiple lines for easy reading.
Thus, the following two headers are equivalent:
Header1: some-long-value-1a, some-long-value-1b
HEADER1:    some-long-value-1a,
            some-long-value-1b

HTTP 1.0 defines 16 headers, though none are required. 
HTTP 1.1 defines 46 headers, and one (Host:) is required in requests. 

For Net-politeness, consider including these headers in your requests:
	From
    gives the email address of whoever's making the request, or running the program doing so. 
		(This must be user-configurable, for privacy concerns.)
	User-Agent
    identifies the program that's making the request, in the form "Program-name/x.xx", 
		where x.xx is the (mostly) alphanumeric version of the program. 
		e.g. Netscape 3.0 sends the header "User-agent: Mozilla/3.0Gold"
These headers help webmasters troubleshoot problems. They also reveal information about the user. 
When you decide which headers to include, 
  balance the webmasters' logging needs 
  against your users' needs for privacy

If you're writing servers, consider including these headers in your responses:
  Server
    analogous to the User-Agent header
    it identifies the server software in the form "Program-name/x.xx" 
    e.g. one beta version of Apache's server returns "Server: Apache/1.2b3-dev"
  Last-Modified
    gives the modification date of the resource that's being returned
    used in caching and other bandwidth-saving activities
    Use Greenwich Mean Time, in the format
      Last-Modified: Fri, 31 Dec 1999 23:59:59 GMT
    
#The Message Body
In a response, this is where the requested resource is returned to the client, 
	or perhaps explanatory text if there's an error. 
In a request, this is where user-entered data or uploaded files are sent to the server.

If an HTTP message includes a body, there are usually header lines in the message that describe the body. In particular:
	Content-Type
    gives the MIME-type of the data in the body, e.g. text/html or image/gif
	Content-Length
    gives the number of bytes (characters) in the body

#--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#Sample HTTP Exchange
to retrieve the file at the URL http://www.somehost.com/path/file.html
first open a socket to the host www.somehost.com, port 80 
  we use the default port of 80 because none is specified in the URL
then, send something like the following through the socket:

GET /path/file.html HTTP/1.0
From: someuser@jmarshall.com
User-Agent: HTTPTool/1.0
[blank line here]

The server should respond with something like the following, sent back through the same socket:
HTTP/1.0 200 OK
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 1999 23:59:59 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 1354

<html>
<body>
(file contents)
  .
  .
</body>
</html>

After sending the response, the server closes the socket.

#--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Being Tolerant of Others

be strict in what you send and tolerant in what you receive.
	other clients and servers you interact with may have minor flaws in their messages, 
	  try to work gracefully with them
the HTTP specification suggests the following:
	even though header lines should end with CRLF, accept either CRLF or LF.
	the 3 fields in the initial message line should be separated by a single space, but accept any number of spaces or tabs as separator
the specification has other suggestions too, like how to handle varying date formats.
  if your program interprets dates from other programs, read the "Tolerant Applications" section of the specification.
