#Installing the CLI: npm install -g grunt-cli
  This will put the grunt command in your system path, allowing it to be run from any directory.
  Note that installing grunt-cli does not install the Grunt task runner!
  The job of the Grunt CLI is simple: run the version of Grunt which has been installed next to a Gruntfile.
  This allows multiple versions of Grunt to be installed on the same machine simultaneously.

#How the CLI works
  Each time grunt is run, it looks for a locally installed Grunt using node's require() system.
    Because of this, you can run grunt from any subfolder in your project.
  If a LOCALLY installed Grunt is found,
    the CLI loads the local installation of the Grunt library,
    applies the configuration from your Gruntfile,
    and executes any tasks you've requested for it to run.
  
#Working with an existing Grunt project
  Assuming that the Grunt CLI has been installed 
    and that the project has already been configured with a package.json and a Gruntfile, 
    it's very easy to start working with Grunt:
      Change to the project's root directory.
      Install project dependencies with npm install.
      Run Grunt with grunt.
  That's really all there is to it.
  Installed Grunt tasks can be listed by running grunt --help
    but it's usually a good idea to start with the project's documentation.

#Preparing a new Grunt project
  A typical setup will involve adding two files to your project: package.json and the Gruntfile.
  package.json is used by npm to store metadata for projects published as npm modules.
    You will list grunt and the Grunt plugins your project needs as devDependencies in this file.
  Gruntfile is used to configure or define tasks and load Grunt plugins.
    This file is named Gruntfile.js or Gruntfile.coffee 

#package.json
  There are a few ways to create a package.json file for your project:
    Most grunt-init templates will automatically create a project-specific package.json file.
    The npm init command will create a basic package.json file.

#Installing Grunt and gruntplugins
